Adding TensorFlow support to the Machine Learning overview page (#22949)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/documentation/sdks/python-machine-learning.md

## Beam Java SDK support

The RunInference API is available with the Beam Java SDK versions 2.41.0 and later through Apache Beam's [Multi-language Pipelines framework](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#multi-language-pipelines). For information about the Java wrapper transform, see [RunInference.java](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/extensions/python/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/extensions/python/transforms/RunInference.java). For example pipelines, see [RunInferenceTransformTest.java](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/extensions/python/src/test/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/extensions/python/transforms/RunInferenceTransformTest.java).

> ## TensorFlow support

Reviewer: @ryanthompson591 could you provide a canonical example here that includes the imports needed?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what exactly you want as a canonical example. Do you mean sample code that would go into this doc, or something else?

Reviewer: Yes something very simple that shows what imports are needed etc... It does not need show how to build a model but just enough to help folks not have to dig around to find the dependencies etc.. As this handler is a little different from the norm

Author: I added a section with TFx imports (below). Please review to make sure it's accurate.

Reviewer: Note we can add any extra information in a separate PR.

Reviewer 3: I took a look, agree with Reza that a simple example would be helpful here. 

How about this:

To use TensorFlow with the RunInference API, you need to:
- use `tfx_bsl==1.10.0` or newer
- create a model handler using `tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference.CreateModelHandler()`, 
- use the model handler with apache_beam.ml.inference.base. RunInference() transform.

A sample pipeline might look like the following:

```
import apache_beam as beam
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from tensorflow_serving.apis import prediction_log_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.proto import model_spec_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.tfxio import TFExampleRecord
from tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference import CreateModelHandler

pipeline = beam.Pipeline()
tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)
saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path=save_model_dir_multiply)
inference_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)
model_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
with pipeline as p:
    _ = (p | tfexample_beam_record.RawRecordBeamSource() 
           | RunInference(model_handler)
           | beam.Map(print)
        )
```

@ryanthompson591 can you test that this works?

Also there is a way how we configure unit tests for snippets to make sure they continue to work. Ideally we'd use that as well.

Author: Excellent suggestion. I made these changes.

Reviewer 3: > @ryanthompson591 can you test that this works?

Did we do this?

Reviewer 3: > file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)

predict_values_five_times_table, save_model_dir_multiply  is not defied in this snippet, so it's somewhat confusing.

Author: I agree that it's confusing; I think we're planning to add the notebook as soon as we have it ready.

To use TensorFlow with the RunInference API, create a model handler from within `tfx_bsl`. The model handler can be keyed or unkeyed.
For more information, see [run_inference.py](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/d1fca25e5eeaac9ef0111ec13e7634df836f36f6/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py) in the TensorFlow GitHub repository.

```

> tf_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)

Reviewer 2: In this example it may make sense to add some information about importing the correct libs from tfx-bsl.

Probably the best way to get this done accurately would be to make a simple notebook and then import the code from that here.

I can try to make some time this week to do that.  Probably it's possible to just modify some code in the notebook you created that showed using the tfx-bsl interface and just replace that with the beam interface.

Author: I added an example below based on the email thread. Should I link to [this notebook](https://colab.sandbox.google.com/drive/1WwxXRnCAd13wEUEBWvuyEI_spnMHbIJK?resourcekey=0-G_S520h-ED_cRHKjLA9GUw&usp=sharing) in this section so that customers can use it to import the code from?

Reviewer: We will need to link the official notebook linked from github. But we can do this as a separate PR as that will take a while to get done.

# unkeyed
beam.run_inference(tf_handler)

# keyed
beam.run_inference(beam.ml.inference.KeyedHandler(tf_handler))

Args:
  inference_spec_type: Model inference endpoint
Returns:
  A Beam RunInference ModelHandler for TensorFlow
"""

> return run_inference.create_model_handler(inference_spec_type, None, None)

Reviewer 2: This return statement seems not illustrative.  I think you probably just copied the implementation code over by accident.

Author: Thanks! I removed it.

## TensorFlow support

To use TensorFlow with the RunInference API, you need to do the following:

* Use `tfx_bsl` version 1.10.0 or later.
* Create a model handler using `tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference.CreateModelHandler()`.
* Use the model handler with the [`apache_beam.ml.inference.base.RunInference`](/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.base.html) transform.

A sample pipeline might look like the following example:

```
import apache_beam as beam
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from tensorflow_serving.apis import prediction_log_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.proto import model_spec_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.tfxio import TFExampleRecord
from tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference import CreateModelHandler

pipeline = beam.Pipeline()

> tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern='/path/to/examples')
```

> saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path=save_model_dir_multiply)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path='/path/to/model')
```

inference_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)
model_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
with pipeline as p:
    _ = (p | tfexample_beam_record.RawRecordBeamSource()
           | RunInference(model_handler)
           | beam.Map(print)
        )
```

The model handler that is created with `CreateModelHander()` is always unkeyed. To make a keyed model handler, wrap the unkeyed model handler in the keyed model handler, which would then take the `tfx-bsl` model handler as a parameter. For example:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

> If you are unsure if your data is keyed, you can also use the `maybe_keyed` handler.

Reviewer 2: change maybe_keyed to MaybeKeyedModelHandler.
https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/8c57b21fc315d4fb86517e5a73abea7e45a77ff0/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/inference/base.py#L196

> If you are unsure if your data is keyed, you can also use the `maybe_keyed` handler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are unsure if your data is keyed, you can also use `MaybeKeyedModelHandler`.
```

## Beam Java SDK support

The RunInference API is available with the Beam Java SDK versions 2.41.0 and later through Apache Beam's [Multi-language Pipelines framework](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#multi-language-pipelines). For information about the Java wrapper transform, see [RunInference.java](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/extensions/python/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/extensions/python/transforms/RunInference.java). For example pipelines, see [RunInferenceTransformTest.java](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/extensions/python/src/test/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/extensions/python/transforms/RunInferenceTransformTest.java).

## TensorFlow support

To use TensorFlow with the RunInference API, you need to create a model handler from within `tfx_bsl`, import the required modules, and add the necessary code to your pipline.

> First, create a model handler from within `tfx_bsl`. The model handler can be keyed or unkeyed.

Author: I added this information to the page.

For more information, see [run_inference.py](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/d1fca25e5eeaac9ef0111ec13e7634df836f36f6/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py) in the TensorFlow GitHub repository.

```
tf_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)

# unkeyed
beam.run_inference(tf_handler)

# keyed

> beam.run_inference(beam.ml.inference.KeyedHandler(tf_handler))

Reviewer 3: @ryanthompson591 : this seems broken. I think it will be removed from this PR but we should fix the source:
- It should be KeyedModelHandler 
- I think there is mixing of tfx_bsl.beam and apache_beam (imported as beam). I can imagine this will cause confusion.
- nit: in `inferece_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)` there is typo in `inference`.

Reviewer 2: @tvalentyn  is right, it should be KeyedModelHandler.

This might be more complete (and I ran this through a colab notebook).

```
    from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
    from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler

    tf_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
    # unkeyed
    RunInference(tf_handler)

    # keyed
    RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

Author: I updated the examples, switched to KeyedModelHandler, and fixed the typos (hoping I didn't add new ones).

> Args:

Author: I believe this is gone.

  inference_spec_type: Model inference endpoint
Returns:
  A Beam RunInference ModelHandler for TensorFlow
```

> Next, in your pipeline, import the required modules:

Author: Are these modules or libraries?

Reviewer 3: technically these are modules and classes, but imports is something that's being done all the time, before doing anything else. See the suggestion above for possible narrative.

Author: I'm using the example above, but I also think it's possibly helpful to tell users exactly which modules are required.

```
from tensorflow_serving.apis import prediction_log_pb2
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference import CreateModelHandler
```

> Finally, add the code to your pipeline. This example shows a pipeline that uses a model that multiplies by five.

Author: Should I add a link to [this notebook](https://colab.sandbox.google.com/drive/1WwxXRnCAd13wEUEBWvuyEI_spnMHbIJK?resourcekey=0-G_S520h-ED_cRHKjLA9GUw&usp=sharing) here?

Reviewer: See previous comment.

tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)
saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path=save_model_dir_multiply)
inference_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)
model_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
with pipeline as p:
    _ = (p | tfexample_beam_record.RawRecordBeamSource()
           | RunInference(model_handler)
           | beam.Map(print)
        )
```

The model handler that is created from within `tfx-bsl` is always unkeyed. To make a keyed model handler, wrap the unkeyed model handler in the keyed model handler, which would then take the `tfx-bsl` model handler as a parameter. For example:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

If you are unsure if your data is keyed, you can also use the `maybe_keyed` handler.

Next, import the required modules:

```
from tensorflow_serving.apis import prediction_log_pb2
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference import CreateModelHandler
```

> Finally, add the code to your pipeline. This example shows a pipeline that uses a model that multiplies by five.

Reviewer 3: > This example shows a pipeline that uses a model that multiplies by five.

This again repeats the code above. also same concern: is this model save_model_dir_multiply part of our examples? If so, we could perhaps define the variable more precisely... or if there is/will be a notebook, we can mention that this is a sketch and say smth like: see ... for a complete example.

Author: I'm removing all examples below the first one. I think we're waiting for the notebook and plan to add a link to it when it's available.

pipeline = beam.Pipeline()
tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)
saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path=save_model_dir_multiply)
inference_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)
model_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
with pipeline as p:
    _ = (p | tfexample_beam_record.RawRecordBeamSource() 
           | RunInference(model_handler)
           | beam.Map(print)
        )
```

First, within `tfx_bsl`, create a model handler. For more information, see [run_inference.py](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/d1fca25e5eeaac9ef0111ec13e7634df836f36f6/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py) in the TensorFlow GitHub repository.

```
tf_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)

# unkeyed
RunInference(tf_handler)

# keyed
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

The model handler that is created from within `tfx-bsl` is always unkeyed. To make a keyed model handler, wrap the unkeyed model handler in the keyed model handler, which would then take the `tfx-bsl` model handler as a parameter. For example:

```

> beam.run_inference(beam.ml.inference.KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))

Reviewer 2: It more accurately should be
beam.ml.inference.base.KeyedModelHandler.

Or better:
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))

Also there is no beam.run_inference.  This typo might ultimately have me to blame.

Author: I updated this example.

* Use `tfx_bsl` version 1.10.0 or later.
* Create a model handler using `tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference.CreateModelHandler()`.
* Use the model handler with the [`apache_beam.ml.inference.base.RunInference`](/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.base.html) transform.

A sample pipeline might look like the following example:

```
import apache_beam as beam
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from tensorflow_serving.apis import prediction_log_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.proto import model_spec_pb2
from tfx_bsl.public.tfxio import TFExampleRecord
from tfx_bsl.public.beam.run_inference import CreateModelHandler

pipeline = beam.Pipeline()
tfexample_beam_record = TFExampleRecord(file_pattern=predict_values_five_times_table)
saved_model_spec = model_spec_pb2.SavedModelSpec(model_path=save_model_dir_multiply)
inference_spec_type = model_spec_pb2.InferenceSpecType(saved_model_spec=saved_model_spec)
model_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)
with pipeline as p:
    _ = (p | tfexample_beam_record.RawRecordBeamSource()
           | RunInference(model_handler)
           | beam.Map(print)
        )
```

> First, within `tfx_bsl`, create a model handler. For more information, see [run_inference.py](https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/d1fca25e5eeaac9ef0111ec13e7634df836f36f6/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py) in the TensorFlow GitHub repository.

Reviewer 3: - I don't quite follow the within `tfx_bsl` statement. We use a function from a library. Doing something `within` a library sounds strange.
- the link to d1fca25e5eeaac9ef0111ec13e7634df836f36f6 pinpoints to old revision with buggy comments. Ideally we would refer to a recent file or better, their documentation. I found https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/tfx_bsl/api_docs/python/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference but it is not updated... @ryanthompson591 @rezarokni do you know if TFX plans to update that page? Can we file a bug?
-  Our options: link to master(bleeding edge): https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/master/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py, or current revision where bug is fixed(https://github.com/tensorflow/tfx-bsl/blob/fbd5195b260ef816d49f50a2d8b1aa4ff1362e71/tfx_bsl/public/beam/run_inference.py#L257), or (my preference) remove lines 200-210 entirely since this narrative repeats line 176.

Author: I'll remove the lines. We can add content back when we have a better link.

```
tf_handler = CreateModelHandler(inference_spec_type)

# unkeyed
RunInference(tf_handler)

# keyed
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

> The model handler that is created from within `tfx-bsl` is always unkeyed. To make a keyed model handler, wrap the unkeyed model handler in the keyed model handler, which would then take the `tfx-bsl` model handler as a parameter. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The model handler that is created with `CreateModelHander()` is always unkeyed. To make a keyed model handler, wrap the unkeyed model handler in the keyed model handler, which would then take the `tfx-bsl` model handler as a parameter. For example:
```

Reviewer 3: Optional:

> is always unkeyed

If there is description in beam docs re: keyed versus unkeyed, we could link it here

Author: Adding a link

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler
RunInference(KeyedModelHandler(tf_handler))
```

If you are unsure if your data is keyed, you can also use the `maybe_keyed` handler.

> Next, import the required modules:

Reviewer 3: module imports come first, so this is out of place. Again, this was mentioned in the example, and somewhat self-evident.

Author: Removed
